DSP Documentation (#6)
vgbs/dsp-documentation: dsp/namespace-management.md

---

## What is a Namespace?

A **namespace** in Kubernetes is a logical subdivision that groups and isolates resources within a cluster. It helps in:
- **Logical Separation**: Preventing resource name collissions across different teams or projects.
- **Access Control**: Restricting user permissions to specified namespaces.
- **Resource Quotas**: Limiting the amount of resources that can be consumed by a namespace. Defining CPU, memory, and other usage limits for specific namespaces.

---

## Kubernetes Namespace Creation

During the registration of a team, a Kubernetes namespace is automatically created.
This namespace follow a **standarized naming convention** to ensure cosistency across the platform.
The general pattern is `<tenant-name>-<team-name>-<env>`.

### Example

`customer-solutions-dsp-dev`

1. **Tenant Name** (see example [Tenant Claim File](!localhost)).
2. **Team Name** (see example [Team Claim File](!localhost)).
3. **Environment**
4. [Public GitOps DSP Template](https://github.com/Digital-Solution-Platform/gitops-dsp-demo)

> During the namespace creation step of team on-boarding along with the tenant cluster a namespace will be created for each team in hub cluster
> with the same name.
> 
> The same namespace name is also created on the **hub cluster**, mirroring the tenant cluster setup.
> This ensures a seamless experience for teams operating in multiple clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the namespace creation step of team on-boarding along with the tenant cluster a namespace will be created for each team in the shared tenant (spoke) cluster.

The same namespace is also created on the **hub cluster**, mirroring the tenant cluster setup.
This ensures a seamless experience for teams operating in multiple clusters.
```

---

# Key Takeaways

1. **Consistent Naming**: The `<tenant-name>-<team-name>-<env>` format unifies team environments and simplifies resource identification.
2. **Automated Provisioning**: Namespaces are generated based on entries in the tenant and team claim files, reducing manual effort and potential errors.
3. **Clear Ownership**: Each namespace clearly correspons to a signle team and environment, streamlining both usage and auditing.

> If you have further questions about namespaces or need assistance with your environment setup, please reach out to the DSP team.

Reviewer: NICE! Takeaways a super cool
